Hi friends
In this video we are going to discuss about the do while loop in C.
So we can use do while loop in
cases where we want to execute a block of statements
at least once
Now this is the syntax of do while loop
do then write statements within curly braces and then while
condition semi colon Now let us see how do while
works so it will execute the statements first and then
check the condition. And if it is true the statements
will be executed again and then it will check the
condition again
Suppose it is true again. so the statements will be
executed and condition will be checked
Now suppose the condition is false so it will come
out of the loop
So in each iteration the statements will be executed first
and then condition will be checked now let us see
simple C programme which gets an input from the user
and print it until the input is 100
So we have the main function and an integer variable
num is created
And then we have our do while loop here and
in each iteration it reads the input and store it to
Num and print it and then check if it is not
equal to 100
So we go to first iteration
We ask the user to give a number and suppose
user enters 12 so it will be printed and
the condition is checked which is true
So we go for the second iteration and ask the
user for a number and let it be 10
now and it will be stored in num and it
will be printed
Now the condition is checked and it is still true
So we go for the third iteration and we ask
the user for the input and let the number
entered by the user be 100
Now it will be stored in Num and it will
be printed
And now the condition will be checked and it fails
So the control comes out of the loop and execute
the next statement which is return zero here
And the major difference between while and do while loop is
that while loop will check the condition first and if
it is true then the block will be executed and
do while will execute the block first and then check the
condition
So that's all and thank you for watching this video